---
layout: post
title: "AWS Summit NYC - 2013"
date: 2013-04-18 09:43
comments: true
categories: [AWS] 
---

Raw notes...

<!-- more -->

At the AWS Summit, Vogels just took the stage. The persentation contains much of what we saw at AWS Re:Invent.

Then:
* 7 years ago, launched S3.

Now:
* 33 major services
* AWS Marketplace - Pre-packaged software (25 categories / 778 products)
* 31 Price Reductions since 2006! (Benefits of economies of scale)
* AWS Trusted Advisor - Saved customers $22M last year

Pace of innovation is the differentiator. 
53 New Services announcements in Q1 2013.

Services:
S3: 2T Objects; 1.1M peak reqs/sec
EMR: 5.5M clusters launched since 5/10
DynamoDB: Now announcing Local Secondary Indexes.

DB always bottleneck in scaling.

Transformation:
What Drives it?
* Success of CC: Addresses uncertainty - on demand, only use when needed, pay only for what you use, leverage core competencies, turn fixed cost into variable.

* Trade capital expense for variable.

* Reduce TCO. 70% reduced over 5 years. (Foursquare 50% reduction in analytics costs.)

* Elasticity.

* Increase innovation by reducing the cost of failure. exp often / fail quickly.

* Stop spending money on Undifferentiated heavy lifting.

* Go global in minutes.

Russel - Bristol Myers Squib

* Created VPC / VPN connection from physical infra.
* Created custom java dash to control instances
* Custom AMIs


The impact of AWS on clinical trials and studies is significant.


who's doing it

Insurance: large variable capacity requirments.
Farmers, 
Climate Corp: Weather Insurance: 5k cores EMR, 10k models, 5T data points (once a month), 15x data growth last year

Financial Services: Regulatory / compliance / Sec Reqs.

Nasdaq OMX / FirstSouthwest

FinQloud - secure, industry only cloud that reduces tech burdens, aid in compliance, allows focus on revenue. It's a wrapper around there data center and AWS via DirectConnect.

FirstSouthwest - pub/corp finance / brokerage. FinQloud User.


Media / Advertising: Revenue is below 1950's level

* Race is on to monitze data... no kidding. :)


Manufacturing: GE

Built first commercial power grid in 1882.

Evolution of connectivity

Phase 1: People to people
Phase 2: Assets to assets via AI (trillions of assets)

Innovation limited by speed... Crowd Driven Ecosytem for Evolutionary Design. (CEED)

Orchastrates distrbuted workflows; collaborative Federated env... first commercial use of GovCloud.

Gene Sequencing: illunia
DNA sequencing... streams up to S3 for data analysis. BaseSpace (https://basespace.illumina.com/home/index)

1000 Genomes Project: 250TB available in S3


Hospitality: Customer Service

Four Seasons, Kempinski
Hotelogix
AirBNB


what's next

Patterns for the furture... 70X the library of congress is collected on the first day of a baby's life.

Big Data:
Move to real time
Deeper integrations
veritical app analytics
hadoop will become invisible

Mortar - aws startup winner
oS framework
Hadoop-as-a-service

1.8M in Seed
1000 Instances / $.5M/year

Connected Devices:
data generators
device / content are independent (device is window to cloud data)
increase workforce mobility

Security and Privacy:
readily avail encryption services
VPC by Default
ANNOUNCEMENT: RDS for Oracle - Transparent Data and native network encryption.

=================================

Into to Opsworks

why use it?
Simple - easy to use
Productive - reduces error with conventions
Flexibility - simplfies deploy
Powerful - reduces cost / time automation
Secure - fine grained permissions

Case study: EasyBib

* Info literacy company
* different envs (dev)

Higher Level Services:
Beanstalk / Opsworks

DIY:
Cloudformation / EC2

=====================================

Disaster Recovery in the Cloud

"The mind is not a vesel to be filled, but a fire to ignite."

BC
High A -> backup storage -> disaster recovery

Monastery and Indoctrination have correlaries.

Lessons from Montecassino:
* Backup should be accessable
* Backup should be scalable
* Backup should be safe
* Should work with DR policy
* Someone should care about it

Case Study: Shaw Media
Reach 20M+ canadians / week

1M files would lose 1 file every 100K years... eleven 9s of durability.

Test the god damn disaster recovery plan. "CloudFormer" to create Cloud Formation templates.

=========================================

Continuous Delivery with Opsworks


